TIP: Leather armor grants movement speed!
TIP: Chainmail armor protects against projectiles!
TIP: Iron armor and tools reform their durability overtime!
TIP: Gold armor grants increased luck!
TIP: Gold tools mine and drop blocks in their original form!
TIP: Silver armor grants immunity to most negative effects!
TIP: Diamond armor protects against explosions!
TIP: Diamond tools mine very fast!
TIP: Tungsten armor protects fire projectiles!
TIP: Tungsten tools are very durable!
TIP: Explore the recipe browser for cool items and blocks to make!
TIP: Stuck on what to do next? Build something cool!
TIP: Take your time, there is no rush!
TIP: There is no proper end of the game!
TIP: Consult the achievements for where to go next!
TIP: Running out of inventory space? Make a backpack!
TIP: Backpacks can be upgraded with metals to expand inventory space!
TIP: Bundles can hold a stack of any variety of items!
TIP: Toolboxes can store 9 tools within one inventory slot!
TIP: Seed Pouches can hold a large quantity of seeds within one inventory slot!
TIP: Quivers can hold a large quantity of arrows!
TIP: Use bows for mid-range combat. Bows can instantly be fired!
TIP: Use crossbows for long-range combat. Arrows shot by crossbows pierce through enemies and deal more damage!
TIP: Use dart shooters for even longer-range combat. Darts are less accurate, but fly infinitely!
TIP: Arrows can be tipped with effects!
TIP: If you break scaffolding it will all fall in one spot!
TIP: Get to destinations faster with a minecart and rail!
TIP: Furnace minecarts can push other carts!
TIP: Minecarts can be chained together!
TIP: Copper blocks can oxidize. Honeycomb can prevent this!
TIP: Iron blocks can rust. Honeycomb can prevent this!
TIP: Diamonds can, rarely, be found very deep underground!
TIP: Tungsten can, rarely, be found very deep underground in the Nether!
TIP: Build a 4x5 ring of obsidian, then light the inside of it on fire!
TIP: Build a 4x5 ring of glowstone, then pour water inside of it!
TIP: There is no way of breaking bedrock...?
TIP: Most monsters come out at night. During the day you're (mostly) safe!
TIP: Use a hoe to dig up seeds!
TIP: Use a hoe to prepare areas of ground for planting.
TIP: Spiders won't attack you during the day - unless you attack them!
TIP: Animals are attracted to light!
TIP: Monsters are attracted to darkness!
TIP: Deep caves get really dark, dont forget torches!
TIP: Some animals will follow you if you have crops in your hand!
TIP: Digging straight down or straight up is not a great idea!
TIP: Rope can be used to descend rapidly!
TIP: Eating cooked food gives more health than eating raw food!
TIP: The more complex a food is to make, the higher it can stack!
TIP: The more health a food heals, the lower it can stack!
TIP: Metals can be turned into useful tools!
TIP: Blocks that can be used as a light source will melt snow and ice. This includes torches, glowstone, and Jack-O-Lanterns!
TIP: A single bucket of lava can smelt 100 items!
TIP: A pair sticks will smelt exactly one item!
TIP: Want more customizaton? Check out the texture packs!
TIP: Experiment with the world types!
TIP: Named animals wont disappear!
TIP: Don't go mining unprepared!
TIP: Sponges can suck up lots of water!
TIP: Plant some saplings and they'll grow into trees!
TIP: Keep getting lost? Try a map or a compass!
TIP: Pick up every sapling type you can. You never know if you'll never see that tree type again!
TIP: Leather equipment can be colored with dye!
TIP: Cauldrons let you mix brew effects!
TIP: Maps can be expanded by adding more paper at a cartography table!
TIP: Combining a filled map with an empty map will copy it!
TIP: Cranks are more precise than levers!
TIP: Placing two chests side by side will make one large chest!
TIP: Lots of plants can be turned into dyes!
TIP: Zombies can break down doors on hard mode!
TIP: Put a chicken on your head and you can glide down to safety!
TIP: Build a shelter by nightfall!
TIP: Slimes can spawn in certain areas. Catch one in a bucket and it will let you know where!
TIP: Other players can loot your chests! Hide your valuables!
TIP: A safe is only able to be opened with a key!
TIP: Players can connect to your world if you give them the link after opening it to LAN!
TIP: Different ores can be found at different depths!
TIP: Cooked food heals more than raw food!
TIP: Use a pickaxe on rocky dirt for cobblestone, or a shovel for dirt!
TIP: Use the right tool for the job!
TIP: There may be multiple ways to obtain the same items!
TIP: After leaving water you will continue to be wet for a few seconds!
TIP: Items will start blinking before they disappear, be quick!
TIP: Raw ores can be smelted into bars at a furnace and blast furnace!
TIP: Watch out, Zombies can occasionally carry armor and weapons!
TIP: Arrows shot by Skeletons cannot be retrieved!
TIP: Tie rope to an arrow to place them from afar!
TIP: Pigs can be ridden with saddles and a baited rod!
TIP: Tools can be repaired by combining them together in a grindstone!
TIP: Tools can be repaired with their respective material in an anvil!
TIP: Tools can be repaired in an Enchanter with Ambrosium as fuel!
TIP: Compasses will show you your latitude and longitude!
TIP: Clocks will show you what time of day it is!
TIP: Altimeters will show you how deep you are in the world!
TIP: Barometers will show you the weather!
TIP: Some spawners will summon a horde of monsters that drop extra loot!
TIP: You can change your game spawn point and skip to dawn by sleeping in a bed!
TIP: Eating cooked pork chops gives more health than eating raw pork chops!
TIP: Do not look directly at the bugs!
TIP: Make some torches to light up areas at night. Monsters will avoid the areas around these torches!
TIP: Take caution when building structures made of wool in open air, as lightning from thunderstorms can set wool on fire!
TIP: The instrument played by a note block depends on the material beneath it!
TIP: Creepers explode when they get close to you!
TIP: Sleeping in a bed at night will fast forward the game to dawn, but all players in a multiplayer game need to sleep in beds at the same time!
TIP: Digging soil or sand with a spade is faster than with your hand!
TIP: If you have an empty bucket, you can fill it with milk from a cow, or water, or lava!
TIP: Cobblestone is resistant to Ghast fireballs, making it useful for guarding portals!
TIP: Hit those fireballs back at the Ghast!
TIP: If you can't find any coal for your torches, you can always make charcoal from trees in a furnace!
TIP: Bonemeal (crafted from a skeleton bone) can be used as a fertilizer, and can make things grow instantly!
TIP: Cook cactus in a furnace to get green dye!
TIP: Obsidian can only be mined with a diamond pickaxe or stronger!
TIP: Chickens lay an egg every 5 to 10 minutes!
TIP: Pigmen won't attack you, unless you attack them!
TIP: Feed a bone to a wolf to tame it. You can then make it sit or follow you!
TIP: If you set the game difficulty to Peaceful, your health will automatically regenerate, and no monsters will come out at night!
TIP: Creepers are the easiest obtainable source of gunpowder!
TIP: Wolves won't attack Creepers!
TIP: Obsidian is created when water hits a lava source block!
TIP: Tame wolves show their health with the position of their tail. Feed them meat to heal them!
TIP: Attacking a wolf will cause any wolves in the immediate vicinity to turn hostile and attack you. This trait is also shared by Zombie Pigmen!
TIP: Lava can take minutes to disappear COMPLETELY when the source block is removed!
TIP: Zombies, Skeletons, and their variants can survive daylight if they are in water!
TIP: Don't look a Voidlander in the eye!
TIP: Always assume rumors are false, rather than assuming they're true!
TIP: Use shears to carve a pumpkin!
TIP: Use seagrass to attract and breed sea turtles!
TIP: The Beacon is a powerful item that can only be crafted with a nether star from the Wither!
TIP: DON'T LEAVE TREES FLOATING
TIP: Use haybales to breed Llamas!
TIP: Protect baby turtle from hostile mobs!
TIP: Zombies turn into drowned if they sink underwater!
TIP: Brew some water breathing brews for underwater exploration!
TIP: Compasses always point to the world spawn - craft one to find your way!
TIP: Did you know that nether stars can't be destroyed by explosions?
TIP: Did you know that you can hold a map in your off-hand?
TIP: Don't kill dolphins, you monster!
TIP: Ocelots show creepers who's boss!
TIP: Tridents are dropped by the Drowned, and can be held or thrown!
TIP: Before you mine diamonds, redstone, or gold, make sure you're using an iron or diamond pickaxe or it won't work!
TIP: Monsters that are killed by skeletons arrows have a chance of dropping music discs!
TIP: This is not realistic, and that's okay!
TIP: There is something seriously wrong with black mold...
TIP: When you die, you lose everything except your armor, tools, trinkets, and hotbar!
TIP: There is a good chance the structure you found has suspicious sand or suspicious gravel!
TIP: You can use a brush on suspicious sand or suspicious gravel to uncover loot!
TRIVIA: Includes music by C418!
TRIVIA: Creepers were born from a coding bug!
TRIVIA: This splash text idea was stolen from DB3K!
TRIVIA: These tips update every 10 seconds!
TRIVIA: There might be an update to this eventually!
TRIVIA: The original name for Minecraft was Cave Game!
TRIVIA: Ghast noises are taken from C418's cat!
TRIVIA: Did you know there's a Minecraft Wiki?
TRIVIA: Did you know there's not a Reminiscence Wiki?
TRIVIA: Who is Notch?
TRIVIA: We think 4J Studios has removed Herobrine from the game, but we're not too sure.
TRIVIA: Some famous people play Minecraft!
TRIVIA: Were you at Minecon?
TRIVIA: Is it a chicken or is it a duck?
TRIVIA: No-one at Mojang has ever seen junkboy's face!
TRIVIA: deadmau5 likes Minecraft!
TRIVIA: There will be an update to this game eventually!
TRIVIA: Mojang has more awards than staff!
TRIVIA: Minecon 2012 was in Paris, France!
TRIVIA: Minecon 2011 was in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA!
TRIVIA: Mojang's new office is cool!
TRIVIA: .party() was excellent!
TRIVIA: Minecon 2013 was in Orlando, Florida, USA!
TRIVIA: No-one can remember where Minecon 2014 was held!
TRIVIA: Minecon 2015 was in London, UK!
TRIVIA: Minecon 2016 was in Anaheim, California, USA!
TRIVIA: Do people actually read these?
TRIVIA: MINECON takes place every year! Look out for the next one!
TRIVIA: There might be another Minecon this year!